Guidelines for Renovate PRs (#219)
bitwarden/contributing-docs: docs/contributing/dependencies/index.md

---
sidebar_custom_props:
  access: bitwarden
---

# Dependency Management

Bitwarden uses [Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/) for automating dependency updates. Renovate
will automatically create pull requests for dependencies on a weekly cadence. Security updates will
generate pull requests immediately.

## Ownership

> Bitwarden's repositories falls under two categories, team-owned and shared repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bitwarden's repositories fall under two categories: team-owned and shared.
```

> ### Team-Owned repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Team-owned repositories
```

> Team owned repositories are "owned" by a single team from a dependency standpoint. The assigned team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Team-owned repositories are "owned" by a single team from a dependency standpoint. The assigned team
```

> is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates. Some reason a repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is responsible for reviewing, approving, and merging dependency updates. Some reason a repository
```

> is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates. Some reason a repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates. Sometimes a repository
```

Author: I don't think `Sometimes` convey the same meaning here. `Sometimes a repository might be team-owned are that it's primarily` doesn't make much sense.

Author: This sentence might have become reworded, can you verify if you still want `Sometimes` here? I don't think it fits in any longer.

> might be team-owned is because it's primarily developed by that team, or to balance out the number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
might be team-owned because it's primarily developed by that team or to balance out the number
```

> is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates. Some reason a repository
> might be team-owned is because it's primarily developed by that team, or to balance out the number
> of dependencies teams have to manage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates. Some reasons a repository
might be team-owned are that it's primarily developed by that team or to balance out the number
of dependencies teams have to manage.
```

> Some examples are [`directory-connector`][dc] which is owned by the _Admin Console_ team and
> [`key-connector`][kc] which is owned by the _Auth_ team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some examples are [`directory-connector`][dc], which is owned by the _Admin Console_ team, and
[`key-connector`][kc], which is owned by the _Auth_ team.
```

> [`key-connector`][kc] which is owned by the _Auth_ team.

Reviewer: 💭 Might be tenuous to mention teams in documentation as they could change.

Author: True, but it's nice to give examples. We can revisit it should the need arise. We probably need a place to store the "ownership" doc which might be a better reference long term.

### Shared repositories

> Shared repositories don't have any direct owner, instead each dependency is allocated to a team. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shared repositories don't have any direct owner. Instead, each dependency is allocated to a team. The
```

> team assigned to a dependency is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging that dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
team assigned to a dependency is responsible for reviewing, approving, and merging that dependency.
```

For major upgrades the team is responsible for coordinating the upgrade with the other teams.

Examples of shared repositories are [`server`][server] and [`clients`][clients].

## Example PR

<figure>

![Screenshot of a  Renovate PR](./renovate-pr.png)

<figcaption>Example Renovate PR</figcaption>

</figure>

> Renovate PRs contains several areas of interest. In the example PR we can see that it contains two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate PRs contain several areas of interest. In the example PR we can see that it contains two
```

> Renovate PRs contains several areas of interest. In the example PR we can see that it contains two
> dependencies, which are grouped together. The PR proposes to upgrade the dependencies from `6.0.21`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Renovate PRs contains several areas of interest. In the example, PR we can see that it contains two
dependencies that have been grouped together. The PR proposes to upgrade the dependencies from `6.0.21`
```

Author: I reworded this section slightly.

> dependencies, which are grouped together. The PR proposes to upgrade the dependencies from `6.0.21`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependencies that are grouped together. The PR proposes to upgrade the dependencies from `6.0.21`
```

Author: I reworded the sentence slightly.

to `7.0.12`. The age of the version is **13 days**, and **13%** of repositories have adopted this

> version. Renovate has seen a **74%** test success rate across Renovate managed repositories and have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version. Renovate has seen a **74%** test success rate across Renovate-managed repositories and has
```

a low confidence in the change. For more details read
[Renovate documentation about Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).

## Workflow

> Renovate will automatically create pull requests during the weekend, this naturally aligns with each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate will automatically create pull requests during the weekend as this naturally aligns with each
```

Author: I changed it to `Renovate will automatically create pull requests during the weekend, which naturally aligns with
each team allocating some time during the following monday to work through their respective queue of
pull requests.`

> team allocating some time during the monday to work through their queue of pull requests. The team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
team allocating some time during the following Mnday to work through its respective queue of pull requests. The team
```

> should work together to resolve outstanding pull requests in a timely manner (typically within the
> week).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
should work together to resolve outstanding pull requests within the week to avoid stagnation.
```

:::info

> The main exception being major upgrades which can sometimes take a longer time to coordinate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main exception being major upgrades that can sometimes take a longer amount of time to coordinate.
```

Ideally the team will have already coordinated and resolved deprecations in advance.

:::

> A Renovate PR may contain a single or a group of dependencies. At Bitwarden we typically group

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Renovate PR may contain a single dependency or a group of dependencies. At Bitwarden, we typically group
```

> A Renovate PR may contain a single or a group of dependencies. At Bitwarden we typically group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Renovate PR may contain a single or group of dependencies. At Bitwarden we typically group
```

Author: I prefer the first variant. From what I understand both are valid.

dependencies we know are related and should be upgraded at the same time. We try to keep groups as
small as possible to minimize the impact and increase confidence in approving and merging.

### Review

A typical dependency workflow involves the following steps:

1. Read the proposed changes.

> 2. Review the release notes to identify if there are any deprecations or breaking changes affecting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Review the release notes of each dependency, for each released version between the current and the proposed upgrade. Identify if there are any deprecations or breaking changes affecting
```

   our code.

>    1. For breaking changes, either resolve them yourself or for major changes coordinate with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. For breaking changes, either resolve them yourself or, for major changes, coordinate with the
```

>    1. For breaking changes, either resolve them yourself or for major changes coordinate with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. For breaking changes, either resolve them yourself or for major changes coordinate with the
```

Author: I think we need to stick with numbers here for markdown to be happy. The actual rendered content uses roman numerals.

      other teams.

>    2. For deprecations, create high priority jira tickets on the affected teams backlogs with a due

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   b. For deprecations, create high priority Jira tickets on the affected teams' backlogs with a due
```

>    2. For deprecations, create high priority jira tickets on the affected teams backlogs with a due
>       date well in advance of the next scheduled major release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. For deprecations, create high priority jira tickets on the affected teams backlogs with a due
      date at least one sprint in advance of the next scheduled major release of the dependency.
```

Author: We'll want to be slightly careful that sprints don't eventually transform into two weeks and we need a slightly longer buffer.

> 3. Verify CI status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify CI status.
```

Reviewer: This is inconsistent in our docs, but it's consistent here ...

> 4. If test coverage is lacking, checkout locally and manually confirm a few key areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If test coverage is lacking, check out locally and manually confirm a few key areas.
```

> 5. Review the proposed code changes, approve the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Review the proposed code changes and approve the PR.
```

> 6. Write a Jira Ticket containing testing notes for QA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Write a Jira task containing testing notes for QA.
```

Author: It's mainly to have tickets to reference for potential regressions. I agree it's slightly annoying but it I think it's good to start with it and we can refine it down the road.

Author: Regarding the suggestion, I think Jira calls them issues, do we want to update that? Internally we use the _story_ type.

> 7. Merge the PR. Assign the jira ticket to QA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Merge the PR. Assign the Jira ticket to QA.
```

If you need to change the code to resolve any issues, please tag a team member for the final review.

> ### Jira Ticket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Jira ticket
```

The handover between developers and QA will be a Jira ticket. The ticket should contain the affected
dependency, any relevant release notes for sections to test, and some testing notes on affected
areas.

> ### QA Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### QA testing
```

> While developers are responsible for writing a jira ticket with testing notes, the QA engineer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While developers are responsible for writing a Jira ticket with testing notes, the QA engineer
```

should practice due diligence by also considering the impact of the dependency change and if needed
discuss with the engineer about potentially increasing or decreasing the scope of testing.

### Reverting

In the event QA finds a regression, the developer is responsible for assessing the impact and either

> immediately revert the update, or resolve the regression in a new PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately revert the update or resolve the regression in a new PR.
```

### Closing irrelevant PRs

Sometimes Renovate will create PRs for dependencies that we are currently unable to upgrade for

> various reasons. One example is `contributing-docs` which is built using `docusaurus`, which

Reviewer 2: Perhaps

```suggestion
various reasons. For example, `contributing-docs` depends on `docusaurus`, which
```

> various reasons. One example is `contributing-docs` which is built using `docusaurus`, which

Author: Took the later suggestion.

---
sidebar_custom_props:
  access: bitwarden
---

# Dependency Management

Bitwarden uses [Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/) for automating dependency updates. Renovate
will automatically create pull requests for dependencies on a weekly cadence. Security updates will
generate pull requests immediately.

## Ownership

Bitwarden's repositories falls under two categories, Team-owned and shared repositories.

### Team-Owned repositories

Team owned repositories are "owned" by a single team from a at least a dependency standpoint. The
assigned team is responsible for reviewing, approving and merging dependency updates.

> Some reason a repository might be team-owned is because it's primarily developed by that team, or to

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: adding examples

* Key Connector -> Auth
* Directory Connector -> AC
